
Open source, alpha status software, be careful it might harm your
computer ;) Be sure to read the Disclaimer of Warranty. from the GNU
GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE

TPDA - Query Repository Tool - a wxPerl and PerlTk GUI tool for data
exporting and query repository management. Queries are saved in XML
files and can be edited and parametrized.

Current supported export formats: CSV, Excel, OpenOffice Calc.
Database management systems support: Firebird, PostgreSQL MySQL and
limited for SQLite.

'Makefile.PL' lists the required modules, from that list 'DBD::SQLite'
is required for the tests and for the initial demo configuration.  The
other DBD modules are optional, use only the needed ones. Same is true
for 'Spreadsheet::WriteExcel', 'OpenOffice::OODoc', ODF::lpOD, and
'Text::CSV_XS'.

% tar -xvzf TpdaQrt-0.31.tar.gz

or

% unzip  TpdaQrt-0.31.zip

cd TpdaQrt-0.31


INSTALL

% perl Makefile.PL
% make
% make test
% make install

For testing the application without installation, after 'make' one can use:

% perl -Mblib bin/tpda-qrt [options] ...

Only make install should be run as root.

Note: With version 0.11, back to 'tpda-qrt' name for the starter
script, using 'qrt' in the initial release, was a bad choice, I think.
I hope no harm was done for those, who tried to test installed the
application.


USAGE

After installing the application, at first start, the configuration
directory is initialized automatically.  The following command will
list all the defined configurations.

There is a new config option in .tpdaqrt/etc/main.yml for used to
switch to the newly supported PerlTk GUI interface.

widgetset: Tk (instead of Wx)

% tpda-qrt -list

Create a new connection configuration, let's name it 'myconn':

% tpda-qrt -init myconn

Edit $HOME/.tpdaqrt/db/myconn/etc/connection.yml

For 'driver', following options are valid:

firebird
postgresql
mysql
sqlite

case is not important

'output' is the path where the files are generated.

Start the program with:

% tpda-qrt myconn [-u username -p password]

No login screen yet ...

Click on the '+' toolbar button and then on the 'Edit' button, edit
the title, the output file name, (the sheet name is valid only for
Excel type output) and the description.

In the Parameters Tab input a description and a value for a parameter,
for example for a 'employee' table:

'Salary' '100000'

Delete all other description and values on other rows.

Edit the SQL text, example:

SELECT *
FROM employee
WHERE salary < value1 AND salary IS NOT NULL;

Save, then select a file output type between 'Calc', 'CSV' or 'Excel'
click on the connect button and than on 'Run'.  A new file, filled
with appropriate data, should have been created on the 'output' path.

I'd like some feedback from you, if you tried to install and succeeded
or failed, than please, contact me at <stefansbv 'at' users
. sourceforge . net>.  Of course, a more or less detailed explanation
of what you like or dislike would be helpful for the future
development of this project.

Have fun!
